---
title: Conditional inclusion
type: Language
source: https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/preprocessor/conditional
---


# Conditional inclusion

The preprocessor supports conditional inclusion of parts of source file. This behavior is controlled by the following directives.

## Syntax


**Syntax:**

- `*constant-expression*|notes=<nowiki/>`
- `*identifier*|notes=<nowiki/>`
- `*identifier*|notes=<nowiki/>`
- `*constant-expression*|notes=<nowiki/>`
- `*identifier*|notes=<sup>(C++23)</sup>`
- `*identifier*|notes=<sup>(C++23)</sup>`
- `|notes=<nowiki/>`
- `|notes=<nowiki/>`
1. Includes the code block it controls if *constant-expression* evaluates to a nonzero value.
2. Equivalent to `#if defined`identifier.
3. Equivalent to `#if !defined`identifier.
4. Includes the code block it controls if the previous `#if` block and all intervening `#elif` blocks are skipped, and *constant-expression* evaluates to a nonzero value.
5. Equivalent to `#elif defined`identifier.
6. Equivalent to `#elif !defined`identifier.
7. Includes the code block it controls if the previous `#if` block and all intervening `#elif` blocks are skipped.
8. Terminates the current `#if`, `#elif` or `#else` block.

## Explanation

The conditional preprocessing block starts with an `#if`, `#ifdef` or `#ifndef` directive, then optionally includes any number of `#elif`<sup>(since C++23)</sup> , `#elifdef`, or `#elifndef` directives, then optionally includes at most one `#else` directive and is terminated with `#endif` directive. Any nested conditional preprocessing blocks are processed separately.
Except for `#endif`, each of these directives control the code block until the first `#elif`<sup>(since C++23)</sup> , `#elifdef`, `#elifndef`, `#else` or `#endif` directive not belonging to any nested conditional preprocessing blocks.
`#if`, `#ifdef` and `#ifndef` directives test the specified condition (see below):
* If it evaluates to true (nonzero value), the controlled code block is included. In this case, all subsequent `#else`<sup>(since C++23)</sup> , `#elifdef`, `#elifndef`, and `#elif` blocks till the associated `#endif` directive are skipped.
* Otherwise, the controlled code block is skipped. In this case:
** If the subsequent non-nested directive is `#endif`, no code block is included.
** If the subsequent non-nested directive is `#else`, the code block it controls is unconditionally included.
** Otherwise, the subsequent non-nested (`#elif`<sup>(since C++23)</sup> , `#elifdef`, or `#elifndef`) directive acts as if it was an `#if` directive: checks for condition, includes or skips the controlled code block based on the result, and in the latter case processes its subsequent directive.

```cpp
#define MY_MACRO 2

#if MY_MACRO > 0
// included
#elif MY_MACRO > 1 // the condition of the #if-block is passed, no more tests
// not included
#endif
```


## Testing conditions


### Preprocessing-exclusive expressions

*constant-expression* may contain the following expressions:
* `defined` expressions (see below), which detects whether an identifier is defined as a macro name.
rev|since=c++17|
* `__has_include` expressions, which detects whether a header or source file exists.
rev|since=c++20|
* `cpp/feature_test#Attributes|__has_cpp_attribute` expressions, which detects whether a given attribute token is supported and its supported version.
rev|since=c++26|
* `__has_embed` expressions, which detects whether a resource is available to be embedded.

### `defined` expressions


**Syntax:**

- `*identifier*`
- `*identifier* **`)`**`
The `defined` expression evaluates to `1` if *identifier* is currently defined as macro name, or `0` if it is not.
An identifier is ''defined as macro name'' in the context of condition inclusion directive if any of the following conditions is satisfied:
* It has one or more active `macro definitions`.
* It is `predefined`.
rev|since=c++17|
* It is `__has_include`.
rev|since=c++20|
* It is `__has_cpp_attribute`.
rev|since=c++26|
* It is `__has_embed`.

### Macro expansion

Except for the identifiers of `defined` expressions, macros in constant-expressions will be expanded prior to condition evaluation.
If the preprocessing token `defined` is generated as a result of this replacement process, or use of the `defined` unary operator does not match one of the two specified forms prior to macro replacement, <sup>(until C++26)</sup> the behavior is undefined<sup>(since C++26)</sup> the program is ill-formed, no diagnostic required.

```cpp
#define MACRO defined

// UB until C++26, IFNDR since C++26
#if MACRO MACRO     // “defined” is generated by macro expansion
#if defined (A + B) // “A + B” is not an identifier
#if defined 1       // 1 is a literal, not an identifier
#if defined         // no argument provided
```

rrev|since=c++26|
If an identifier `limit`, `prefix`, `suffix` or `if_empty` is encountered during the macro expansion between the opening and closing parentheses of a `__has_embed` expression, and the identifier is defined as a macro, the program is ill-formed.

```cpp
#define limit 0
#define HAS_EMBED_LIMIT_10(file) __has_embed(file limit(10))

// ill-formed
#if __has_embed("e.dat" limit(10)) // “limit” is defined as a macro
#if HAS_EMBED("e.dat")             // macro expansion encounters the macro “limit”
```


### Condition evaluation

After all macro expansion and evaluations of the preprocessing-exclusive expressions described above, each remaining identifier other than `true` and `false` is replaced with the preprocessing number `0` (this includes identifiers that are lexically keywords, but not alternative tokens like `and`).
After that, each preprocessing token is converted into a token. The resulting tokens comprise the condition controlloing the associated code block, which is evaluated as an , with the following changes:
* During token conversion and condition evaluation (including determining the value of s):
rev|until=c++11|
:* `int` acts as it has the same representation as `long`.
:* `unsigned int` acts as it has the same representation as `unsigned long`.
rev|since=c++11|
:* All signed integer types act as they have the same representation as `cpp/types/integer|std::intmax_t`.
:* All unsigned integer types act as they have the same representation as `cpp/types/integer|std::uintmax_t`.
* Each subexpression with type `bool` is subjected to  before processing continues.
If the condition evaluates to nonzero value, the controlled code block is included and skipped otherwise.

## Notes

While `#elifdef` and `#elifndef` directives target C++23, implementations are encouraged to backport them to the older language modes as conforming extensions.

## Example


### Example

```cpp
#define ABCD 2
#include <iostream>

int main()
{

#ifdef ABCD
    std::cout << "1: yes\n";
#else
    std::cout << "1: no\n";
#endif

#ifndef ABCD
    std::cout << "2: no1\n";
#elif ABCD == 2
    std::cout << "2: yes\n";
#else
    std::cout << "2: no2\n";
#endif

#if !defined(DCBA) && (ABCD < 2*4-3)
    std::cout << "3: yes\n";
#endif


// Note that if a compiler does not support C++23's #elifdef/#elifndef
// directives then the "unexpected" block (see below) will be selected.
#ifdef CPU
    std::cout << "4: no1\n";
#elifdef GPU
    std::cout << "4: no2\n";
#elifndef RAM
    std::cout << "4: yes\n"; // expected block
#else
    std::cout << "4: no!\n"; // unexpectedly selects this block by skipping
                             // unknown directives and "jumping" directly
                             // from "#ifdef CPU" to this "#else" block
#endif

// To fix the problem above we may conditionally define the
// macro ELIFDEF_SUPPORTED only if the C++23 directives
// #elifdef/#elifndef are supported.
#if 0
#elifndef UNDEFINED_MACRO
#define ELIFDEF_SUPPORTED
#else
#endif

#ifdef ELIFDEF_SUPPORTED
    #ifdef CPU
        std::cout << "4: no1\n";
    #elifdef GPU
        std::cout << "4: no2\n";
    #elifndef RAM
        std::cout << "4: yes\n"; // expected block
    #else
        std::cout << "4: no3\n";
    #endif
#else // when #elifdef unsupported use old verbose “#elif defined”
    #ifdef CPU
        std::cout << "4: no1\n";
    #elif defined GPU
        std::cout << "4: no2\n";
    #elif !defined RAM
        std::cout << "4: yes\n"; // expected block
    #else
        std::cout << "4: no3\n";
    #endif
#endif
}
```


**Output:**
```
1: yes
2: yes
3: yes
4: no!
4: yes
```


## Defect reports


## See also

