---
title: Templates
type: Language
source: https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/language/templates
---


# Templates

A template is a C++ entity that defines one of the following:
* a family of classes (`class template`), which may be `nested classes`
* a family of functions (`function template`), which may be `member functions`
rrev|since=c++11|
* an alias to a family of types (`alias template`)
rrev|since=c++14|
* a family of variables (`variable template`)
rrev|since=c++20|
* a concept (`constraints and concepts`)
Templates are parameterized by one or more `template parameters`, of three kinds: type template parameters, non-type template parameters, and template template parameters.
When template arguments are provided, or, for `function` <sup>(since C++17)</sup>  and `class` templates only, deduced, they are substituted for the template parameters to obtain a ''specialization'' of the template, that is, a specific type or a specific function lvalue.
Specializations may also be provided explicitly: `full specializations` are allowed for class<sup>(since C++14)</sup> , variable and function templates, `partial specialization`s are only allowed for class templates<sup>(since C++14)</sup>  and variable templates.
When a class template specialization is referenced in context that requires a complete object type, or when a function template specialization is referenced in context that requires a function definition to exist, the template is ''instantiated'' (the code for it is actually compiled), unless the template was already explicitly specialized or explicitly instantiated. Instantiation of a class template does not instantiate any of its member functions unless they are also used. At link time, identical instantiations generated by different translation units are merged.
The definition of a class template must be visible at the point of implicit instantiation, which is why template libraries typically provide all template definitions in the headers (e.g. [https://www.boost.org/doc/libs/release/more/getting_started/unix-variants.html#header-only-libraries most boost libraries are header-only]).

## Syntax


**Syntax:**

- `parameter-list**`>`** *requires-clause* (optional) *declaration*`
- `parameter-list**`>`** *declaration*|notes=<sup>(until C++11)</sup>`
- `parameter-list**`> concept`** *concept-name* **`=`** constraint-expression**`;`**|notes=<sup>(C++20)</sup>`

### Parameters

- `{{spar` - parameter-list|a non-empty comma-separated list of the `template parameters`, each of which is either `non-type parameter`, a `type parameter`, a `template parameter`<sup>(since C++11)</sup> , or a `parameter pack of any of those`.
- `{{spar` - requires-clause|<sup>(C++20)</sup> a `requires-clause` that specifies the `constraints` on the template arguments.
- `{{spar` - declaration|declaration of a `class (including struct and union)`, a `member class or member enumeration type`, a `function` or `member function`, a static data member at namespace scope<sup>(since C++14)</sup> `, a variable or static data member at class scope`<sup>(since C++11)</sup> , or an `alias template`. It may also define a `template specialization`.
- `{{spar` - concept-name<br>*constraint-expression*|see `constraints and concepts`
rrev|until=c++11|
`export` was an optional modifier which declared the template as ''exported'' (when used with a class template, it declared all of its members exported as well). Files that instantiated exported templates did not need to include their definitions: the declaration was sufficient. Implementations of `export` were rare and disagreed with each other on details.

## Template identifiers

A template identifier has one of the following syntaxes:

**Syntax:**

- `**`<`***template-argument-list* (optional)**`>`**`
- `op**`<`***template-argument-list* (optional)**`>`**`
- `*identifier* **`<`***template-argument-list* (optional)**`>`**|notes=<sup>(C++11)</sup><br>`
- `*user-defined-string-literal* **`<`***template-argument-list* (optional)**`>`**|notes=<sup>(C++11)</sup>`
1. A ''simple template identifier''.
2. An operator function template identifier.
@3,4@ A `literal operator` function template identifier.

### Parameters

- `{{spar` - template-name|an `identifier` that names a template
- `{{spar` - op|an `overloadable operator`
- `{{spar` - identifier|an identifier
- `{{spar` - user-defined-string-literal|`""` followed by an identifier
A simple template identifier that names a class template specialization names a class.
A template identifier that names an alias template specialization names a type.
A template identifier that names a function template specialization names a function.
If all following conditions are satisfied, a template identifier is ''valid'':
* There are at most as many arguments as there are parameters<sup>(since C++11)</sup>  or a parameter is a template `parameter pack`.
* There is an argument for each non-deducible<sup>(since C++11)</sup>  non-pack parameter that does not have a default template argument.
* Each template argument matches the corresponding template parameter.
* Substitution of each template argument into the following template parameters (if any) succeeds.
rrev|since=c++20|
* If the template identifier is `non-dependent`, the associated constraints are satisfied as specified below.
An invalid simple template id is a compile-time error, unless it names a function template specialization (in which case `SFINAE` may apply).

```cpp
template<class T, T::type n = 0>
class X;

struct S
{
    using type = int;
};

using T1 = X<S, int, int>; // error: too many arguments
using T2 = X<>;            // error: no default argument for first template parameter
using T3 = X<1>;           // error: value 1 does not match type-parameter
using T4 = X<int>;         // error: substitution failure for second template parameter
using T5 = X<S>;           // OK
```

rrev|since=c++20|
When the *template-name* of a simple template id names a constrained non-function template or a constrained template template parameter, but not a member template that is a member of an unknown specialization, and all template arguments in the simple template id are non-dependent, the associated constraints of the constrained template must be satisfied:

```cpp
template<typename T>
concept C1 = sizeof(T) != sizeof(int);

template<C1 T>
struct S1 {};

template<C1 T>
using Ptr = T*;

S1<int>* p;                      // error: constraints not satisfied
Ptr<int> p;                      // error: constraints not satisfied

template<typename T>
struct S2 { Ptr<int> x; };       // error, no diagnostic required

template<typename T>
struct S3 { Ptr<T> x; };         // OK, satisfaction is not required

S3<int> x;                       // error: constraints not satisfied

template<template<C1 T> class X>
struct S4
{
    X<int> x;                    // error, no diagnostic required
};

template<typename T>
concept C2 = sizeof(T) == 1;

template<C2 T> struct S {};

template struct S<char[2]>;      // error: constraints not satisfied
template<> struct S<char[2]> {}; // error: constraints not satisfied
```

If all following conditions are satisfied, two template identifiers are ''same'':
* Their template-names or operators refer to the same template.
* Their corresponding type template arguments are the same type.
* The template parameter values determined by their corresponding non-type template arguments are `template-argument-equivalent`.
* Their corresponding template template arguments refer to the same template.
Two template identifier that are the same refer to the same<sup>(since C++14)</sup>  variable, class, or function.

## Templated entity

A ''templated entity'' (or, in some sources, "temploid") is any entity that is defined<sup>(since C++11)</sup>  (or, for a `lambda expression, created)` within a template definition. All of the following are templated entities:
* a template
rrev|since=c++26|
* an entity defined or created within the *item-declaration* or *compound-statement* of an `expansion statement`
* an entity defined or created within a templated entity (such as a local class, a local or block variable, or a friend function)
* a member of a templated entity (such as a non-template member function of a class template)
* an enumerator of an enumeration that is a templated entity
rrev|since=c++11|
* the closure type of a lambda expression that appears in the declaration of a templated entity
For example, in

```cpp
template<typename T>
struct A
{
    void f() {}
};
```

the function `A::f` is not a function template, but is still considered to be templated.
A ''templated function'' is a function template or a function that is templated.
A ''templated class'' is a class template or a class that is templated.
rrev|since=c++14|
A ''templated variable'' is a variable template or a variable that is templated.

## Keywords

`cpp/keyword/template`,
`cpp/keyword/export`

## Defect reports


### Defect Reports

| WG | Std | Before | After |
|----|------|--------|-------|
| cwg-2293 | C++98 | the rules of determining whether a template<br>identifier is valid were not provided | provided |
| cwg-2682 | C++98<br>C++14 | the definitions of templated function/template class<br>(C++98)/templated variable (C++14) were missing | added |


## See also

