---
title: std::money_put::put
type: Localizations
source: https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/locale/money_put/put
---


```cpp
**Header:** `<`locale`>`
dcl|num=1|1=
public:
iter_type put( iter_type out, bool intl, std::ios_base& f,
char_type fill, long double quant ) const;
dcl|num=2|1=
iter_type put( iter_type out, bool intl, std::ios_base& f,
char_type fill, const string_type& quant ) const;
dcl|num=3|1=
protected:
virtual iter_type do_put( iter_type out, bool intl, std::ios_base& str,
char_type fill, long double units ) const;
dcl|num=4|1=
virtual iter_type do_put( iter_type out, bool intl, std::ios_base& str,
char_type fill, const string_type& digits ) const;
```

Formats monetary value and writes the result to output stream.
@1,2@ Public member functions, call the member function `do_put` of the most derived class.
3. The numeric arguments `units` is converted to a wide character string as if by
`ct.widen(buf1, buf1 + std::sprintf(buf1, "%.0Lf", units), buf2)`, where `ct` is the `std::ctype` facet imbued in `str.getloc()` and `buf1` and `buf2` are sufficiently large character buffers. The resulting character string `buf2` is processed, formatted, and output to `out` as desribed below.
4. From the string argument `digits`, only the optional leading minus sign (as determined by comparing to `ct.widen('-')`, where `ct` is the `std::ctype` facet imbued in `str.getloc()`) and the immediately following digit characters (as classified by `ct`) are taken as the character sequence to be processed, formatted, and output to `out` as described below.
Given the character sequence from the previous steps, if the first character equals `ct.widen('-')`, calls `mp.neg_format()` to obtain the formatting `pattern`, otherwise calls `mp.pos_format()`, where `mp` is the `std::moneypunct<CharT, intl>` facet imbued in `str.getloc()`.
Thousands separator and decimal point characters are inserted as required by `mp.grouping()`, `mp.frac_digits()`, `mp.decimal_point()`, and `mp.thousands_sep()`, and the resulting string is placed in the output sequence where `value` appears in the formatting pattern.
If `str.flags() & str.showbase` is non-zero (the `std::showbase` manipulator was used), then the currency symbol or string is generated by calling `mp.curr_symbol()` and placed in the output sequence where `symbol` appears in the formatting pattern.
If `mp.positive_sign()` (in case positive format pattern is used) or `mp.negative_sign()` (in case negative format pattern is used) returns a string with more than one character, the first character returned is placed in the output sequence where `sign` appears in the formatting pattern, and the rest of the characters are placed after all other characters, for example, formatting pattern } with units `123` and negative_sign of `"-"` may result in `"-1.23 €"`, while negative_sign of `"()"` would generate `"(1.23 €)"`.
If the number of characters generated for the specified format is less than the value returned by `str.width()`, then copies of `fill` are inserted to bring the total length of the output sequence to exactly `str.width()`, as follows:
* If `str.flags() & str.adjustfield` equals `str.internal`, the fill characters are inserted where `none` or `space` appears in the formatting pattern.
* Otherwise, if `str.flags() & str.adjustfield` equals `str.left`, the copies of `fill` are appended after all other characters.
* Otherwise, the fill characters are placed before all other characters.
In the end, calls `str.width(0)` to cancel the effects of any `std::setw`.

## Return value

An iterator pointing immediately after the last character produced.

## Notes

The currency units are assumed to be the smallest non-fractional units of the currency: cents in the U.S, yen in Japan.

## Example


### Example

```cpp
#include <iomanip>
#include <iostream>
#include <locale>

struct my_punct : std::moneypunct_byname<char, false>
{
    my_punct(const char* name) : moneypunct_byname(name) {}
    string_type do_negative_sign() const { return "()"; }
};

int main()
{
    std::locale loc("ru_RU.utf8");
    std::cout.imbue(loc);
    long double units = -123.45;
    std::cout << "In Russian locale, " << units << " prints as " << std::showbase;

    // note, the following is equivalent to simply std::put_money(units)
    std::use_facet<std::money_put<char>>(loc).put(
        {std::cout}, false, std::cout, std::cout.fill(), units);
    std::cout << '\n';

    std::cout.imbue(std::locale(std::cout.getloc(), new my_punct("ru_RU.utf8")));
    std::cout << "With negative_sign set to \"()\", it prints as ";
    std::use_facet<std::money_put<char>>(loc).put(
        {std::cout}, false, std::cout, std::cout.fill(), units);
    std::cout << '\n';
}
```


**Output:**
```
In Russian locale, -123,45 prints as -1.23 руб
With negative_sign set to "()", it prints as (1.23 руб)
```


## Defect reports


## See also


| cpp/locale/dsc moneypunct | (see dedicated page) |
| cpp/locale/dsc money_get | (see dedicated page) |
| cpp/io/manip/dsc put_money | (see dedicated page) |

